welcome back to another exciting video
of cinema recap today i'm going to
explain an australian science fiction
film called 2067 in which a world in the
brink of extinction invests every ounce
of hope in a time machine experiment and
once it's running a message from the
future comes back
send ethan white
it's one thing to go on a journey
attempting to find a cure for a loved
one but it's another thing entirely when
that adventure involves time travel into
the future and being confronted with
evidence that despite the promise of
returning home with the solution the
mission was a failure
of the many resplendent sites found
within visual effects artists turned
director seth larney's 2067 this is one
of the more haunting realizations
and the scene my mind races back to
whenever i internally debate whether i
would recommend the sci-fi mind bender
or not
so let's dive into the story but before
we start don't forget to hit the like
button and also subscribe to her channel
to get some interesting stuff in
upcoming videos
set in the eponymous here the film
depicts a dystopian world in which
humanity is close to extinction with the
complete disappearance of the trees the
natural oxygen doesn't exist any longer
people must rely on its synthetic
variation but because of its exorbitant
price poor can hardly afford it the
first half of the film takes place in
the only city in the world in which
electricity is still available
in the year 2067 earth has been
devastated by climate change with all
plant life on earth extinct civilization
has collapsed around the globe only one
city in australia has been able to hold
out against these catastrophic changes
thanks to synthetic oxygen produced by
crony corp corporation
however this oxygen is tainted and
gradually causes a deadly affliction
known as the sickness
cody smith mcphee is ethan white an
underground worker living in the titular
feature that has been ravaged by climate
change deforestation in just about every
other way human beings continuously [ __ ]
up planet earth such abuse in mother
nature has rendered oxygen non-existent
meaning that society now uses artificial
oxygen to get by but mostly just walk
around wearing masks some have been able
to adapt to such a dramatic change while
others such as ethan's wife santh are
slowly dying from not having the real
thing as if she's suffering from a
terminal illness
one day ethan is called before regina
jackson the chronic horror cto who
explains that the sickness will
eventually wipe out humanity
during a test to the chronicle a
prototype time machine that quantum
physicist richard white had worked on
before his death 20 years prior the
scientists received a radio signal from
470 years in the future with the message
to specifically send ethan to them in
hopes to finding a cure for the sickness
and preventing the extinction of
humankind ethan is asked to be sent into
the future
he refuses as he might never be able to
return and as he resents his father for
abandoning him and his mother but santh
and ethan's guardian and work colleague
jude managed to change his mind
after surviving the traumatic time
displacement ethan finds himself in a
lush rainforest with only a device
permanently fitted to his wrist by his
father during his childhood and a hand
computer named archie as his only
surviving pieces of equipment
following archie's instructions he finds
the entrance to a bunker-like structure
and before it a skeleton wearing his
jumpsuit and with a bullet hole in its
skull as well as a decaying archie and
the familiar wrist device
shocked by the discovery of his
apparently inexorable death in the near
future and sick from eating poisonous
berries ethan is rescued by jude who
followed him through time after his life
readings transmitted through the
chronicle were failing after sharing
their findings they follow archie's
directions to another still functional
door which is revealed to lead to the
chronicle lab it is there that ethan's
wrist device is revealed to be a dna
analyzer specifically made to grant him
access to the chronicle which sets
itself for automatic reactivation in
four hours
from a holographic recording left by
richard white the duo learns that the
chronicle project originally entailed
the reactivation of an atmospheric
monitoring station which would ascertain
the earth's atmosphere's breathability
in the future and then transmit the data
back to the past
when first activating the machine
richard was surprised to receive a
message to send his own son to the
future so despite his misgivings he
prepared ethan's wrist analyzer however
an immediate follow-up mission was
rendered impossible because safely
sending living matter through time
required an operation length from both
sides and the data showed a power
failure in 2474.
the activation of the chronicle triggers
a malfunction in its nuclear power core
threatening to unleash a nuclear
explosion before the countdown is
completed this is the power failure that
the data had previously indicated ethan
and jude make their way back to the
power core which is located beneath the
overgrown ruins of their home city
finding the ruins littered by skeletons
including synths they conclude that a
curse against the sickness was never
found
when jude attempts some comforting words
ethan recognizes jude's voice from a
recording he found on the decaying
archie computer taken moments before his
future self was killed
telling ethan that he's saving ethan
from himself chu directs ethan at
gunpoint to the reactor's control room
unable to activate the emergency
override ethan allows himself to be
locked inside of the pressuring chamber
to initiate a manual reboot he succeeds
in rerouting the power preventing the
meltdown and reopening the control room
with 37 minutes to spare the duo returns
to the chronicle lab where ethan finds
another exit that opens the entryway
next to a skeleton ethan suffers a
nervous breakdown and implores jude to
kill him what jude refuses to do judah
confesses that there was no actual hope
of ever changing the future refusing to
believe that ethan locks jude in a room
and placed back his father's log from
the day that richard died
ethan learns that his mission was a sham
from the beginning jackson intended to
flee from her dying time into the future
with a chosen few to start the new while
richard maintained the hope that the
return message must have been sent by
somebody indicating that there is yet
hope for more of humankind in order to
prevent its abuse richard keyed the time
machine to ethan's dna but when
richard's colleague announced the
machine could be rigged to send a person
to the future one way jason killed
richard jude was appointed as ethan's
guardian to ensure that ethan would be
sent forward in time to repair the power
failure and stabilize the time portal
once ethan returned to 2067 jackson
would have him killed he then tries to
shut the chronicle down but jude moves
to stop him when ethan refuses to fight
him jude guilt ridden commits suicide
just before jackson can put her plans in
motion ethan sends the send ethan white
message into the past along with a copy
of richard's recorded murder and archie
hundreds of live jungle plants in a
farewell gift to seth he then destroys
the chronicle this changes the timeline
in the past jackson is arrested after
archie transmits the recording to a new
station and the plants are used to
revitalize the planet in the future
ethan's corpse is gone and ethan
discovers his formerly ruined city is
advanced and populated
the ending of 2067 depicts a time
traveling scene which is indeed a
masterpiece full of well executed close
shots and effects the ending indeed blew
the mind of the ones who watched it but
the good quality of a movie is how it
portrayed the entire scene perfectly
cody smith mcphee placed the lead in the
movie as ethan white ethan time travels
to the year 2474 wherein he sees that
humanity is wiped off and earth has the
time to heal itself also ethan to find
out the person who sent the message and
also seek local help in order to get
back to his time but is just stuck
through after he eats a poisonous berry
and the hallucination scene begins just
then jude comes and saves his life and
thereafter he lives ethan is confused as
the source of the message was coming
from some facility that he deserted
years ago as the facility opened via his
own dna
and then a hologram of his father clears
him the whole scenario the entire plot
clears out now as the hologram tells
ethan that the time machine is set in
such a way so as to set a signal when
earth heals itself and becomes habitable
once more
at the end i'll say that larnie has a
strong eye that makes up for a lot of
the cringe-worthy dialogue 2067 is a low
budget affair but learning makes the
most of what he has employing a vision
of the future that isn't metal and fire
but green with vegetation
we're all hoping for a future that's
green right
we hope you enjoyed our today's video if
you did like this video smash the like
button and subscribe to your channel and
stay up to date with the latest and
interesting videos